 

4⁶

{nto prison. This summer there have again been expedited
thither, by authority of the King and the Prince of Wales,
vessels to discover the passage further, and to search out
Mr. Hudson and his friends, which vessels are ordered to
pass both as soon as the passage is found, and to send home
one with the tidings we expect.

 

Remarks on this Russian map‚ and also on the intervening
passages, which Isaac Massa has added to the description.

On the map Massa has interpreted the Russian name,
which was written in Greek letters, on the land above the
street of Matseioftsar‚ - otherwise called Matenskinsarck
and Costinsarck -- by America, as he had written that in -
my example, which was a great mistake. For the land which
William Barentsz has sailed along, and on which he built the
abiding house, extends as far as even 60 miles higher North,
and has always been called by the name of Nova Zembla, which
means as much as New-Land, and is thought to be an island.

But ‘Ds. Peter Plautius has a contrary opinion of it, from
the account of Willem Barentsz and Hans van Uffelen ot
Romi-dam, who have told him that they had understood
from a chief of the Samoyeds on the south-side of the strait
of Weygats‚ that aforesaid Nova Zembla is fastened eastward
to the south of the continent, and that the Mar More (which
. he explains to be the Pacific Sea) is stopped up to the east
with ice‚ which comes from the great rivers, and would
appear also in some measure from this map, if tne land which
is drawn to the north of the river Peisida, and the land os
Nova Zembla‚ were joined together.

But as Jan Huyghen writes that the Amsterdam interpreter

¹* s ,ἓν
Δ. &affin-3 Ἀ ι· “

 

